---
title: "Considering point defects in sub-stoichiometric ZrCx"
collection: talks
type: "Contributed oral presentation"
permalink: /talks/2020-02-27-tms-al-ni
venue: "TMS 2020"
date: 2020-02-27
location: "San Diego, CA, USA"
authors: "Theresa Davey<sup>1</sup>, Ying Chen<sup>1</sup>"
affiliations: "1. School of Engineering, Tohoku University, Japan"
---

Zirconium (mono)carbide is a rocksalt structure compound of interest in nuclear and aerospace industries due to its extremely high melting point at around 3700 K and wide range of stable compositions (vacancies on up to ~30% of the C sites). The thermodynamic and mechanical properties of ZrCx are strongly affected by significant structural vacancies. Recent investigations suggest that there may be a series of vacancy-ordered zirconium carbide phases at relatively low temperature (<1200 K) that are very difficult to observe experimentally [1]. Conventional CALPHAD-type phase diagram models do not directly consider such defects or defect-ordered phases, and the widely-used C-Zr phase diagram [2] has been shown to be intrinsically incompatible with our physical understanding of structural point defects [3].

Defect-related properties such as formation energies and defect-defect interaction energies are challenging to obtain experimentally with the required accuracy. In this work, state-of-the- art first-principles calculations of vacancy, substitutional, and interstitial defect-related properties are used to inform development of Gibbs energy models for cases where many structural point defects are present.

Incorporating such information directly into the thermodynamic database produces a more physically consistent description and may allow further predictive ability. Elucidating the defect- ordering and stability behaviour via first-principles calculation has the potential to aid experimentalists in identifying ordered phases which may have specific low temperature applications.

[1] C. Weinberger and G. Thompson. Journal of the American Ceramic Society 101 (2018) 4401-4424.  
[2] A. FernaÌndez Guillermet. Journal of Alloys and Compounds 217 (1995) 69-89.
[3] T. Davey. PhD thesis (Imperial College London) (2017).


