---
title: "Reduction of uncertainty in a first-principles-based CALPHAD-type phase diagram via sequential learning of phase equilibrium data"
collection: talks
type: "Oral contribution"
permalink: /talks/2020-02-27-tms-al-ni
venue: "TMS 2020"
date: 2020-02-27
location: "San Diego, CA, USA"
---
@ TMS 2020: ICME Gap Analysis in Materials Informatics: Databases, Machine Learning, and Data-Driven Design

Theresa Davey<sup>1</sup>, Brandon J. Bocklund<sup>2</sup>, Zi-Kui Liu<sup>2</sup>, Ying Chen<sup>1</sup>

1. School of Engineering, Tohoku University, Japan
2. Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Pennsylvania State University, USA 


Phase diagrams are a fundamental tool in materials design, but thorough experimental determination is challenging, expensive, and time consuming. Phase diagrams calculated entirely from first-principles may reduce time and expense, providing information at the prediction stage. Our previous work demonstrated a methodology to obtain a first-principles only CALPHAD-type phase diagram reproducing all major features, with little or no prior knowledge of the system [1]. This can guide reduced experiments needed for database validation. 

Considering the quantified uncertainty of the phase diagram [2] using ESPEI [3], a sequential learning approach is taken to systematically add data in regions of highest uncertainty. This models how the first-principles only phase diagram could help select experimental parameters, and how each experiment affects the phase diagram.

[1] T. Davey et al., CALPHAD XLVIII, June 2019. 

[2] N. Paulson et al., Acta Mater. 174 (2019) 9–15.

[3] B. Bocklund et al., MRS Commun. (2019) 1-10.


